so the
I studied all kind of different natural
medicines including I Vader which is
Indian medicine Greek medicine Chinese
medicine and all of these different
medical systems have a lot of common
things that allow them to make them work
so with the wheel of health what I've
done is to still all this information
one aspect of the wheel of health is our
body type which I've represented is the
wheel itself essentially it's the body
we've been given it's our genetics is
what we've inherited from our parents
some people can eat and drink and live
quite a bad lifestyle but yet can live a
long time with others how to really look
after their health in order to be able
to be in the world so essentially
everybody is different we have to to
look at our body type of constitutional
health because that enables us to
understand how we are as an individual
and health is what our body type is and
what we do with it so it's important
that we recognize how our body works and
to live according to our means so we
need to leave the kind of food that our
individual body needs we need to either
kinds of foods that we we need to live
optimum Lee
essentially i used the wheel of health
as symbolic of our body but it's
interfacing with the road which is our
environment and obviously the more bumpy
the road is the more likely we're going
to have health problems so essentially
the more toxic environment is the more
hostile our environment is the more
problems our body is going to have so
it's important we're in an environment
as much as we can that as toxin free
that's conducive to really good levels
of health but if we we don't have
complete control over our bottom but
what we do have is control over the kind
of foods that we eat how we detoxify our
lifestyle the kind of exercise we do
that what we think and how we feel so
all of these factors can make us more
robust to our environment what are the
major principle I look at is which is
the first we love which is a first spoke
of the wheel of health its nourishment
it's what we eat what we drink the air
we breathe all of these factors have a
really important fundamental impact on
the way our being is how healthy we are
so nourishment is important but so is
detoxification we can take all the
really good health healthy food in but
if we don't get rid of the waste then
our body will become toxic and full of
these environmental poisons and
metabolic wastes so in the book I talk
about how it's it's so important to
detoxify and that can be the digestive
system the kidneys the liver the skin
and how to really encourage the body to
get rid of all these negative toxins of
course health isn't just nutrition is
also how we move and and how we keep our
metabolic rate by the kind of exercise
that we do what's also important is it
is is resting is making sure that we
have enough sleep is that it's the
routine we have it's our lifestyle it's
when we get up in the morning when we go
to bed when we eat all of these factors
really pivotal to how our well-being is
in the world one of the most important
aspects is mind emotions and our spirit
it it's what we think is what we feel
it's our relationship to to our culture
to our world into our environment so
essentially all of these aspects come
together and a vital for how we operate
in the world is how healthy we are and
once all these factors are together we
can achieve a much better level of
health we can be vital we can have more
energy but in order to do that we need
to be able to incorporate all these
aspects
and with the wheel of health essentially
the the center of balance is when we're
healthy is the hub of the wheel when
we're in the hub of the wheel we are in
harmony in fact we we can live our lives
in an effortless way but sometimes
things happen we become out of balance
and we become drawn to the edge of the
wheel in a sense we become between the
wheel and and the bumpy road so what we
need to do is to get to the center of
the wheel but for that to happen we need
all of these five aspects to be in
balance we need to be eating the kinds
of foods that we need this nutritional
there's full of vitamins is full of
minerals the kinds of foods that
nourishes our body we need to be having
optimum elimination a digestive system
needs to be working the liver needs to
be doing its job properly the kid is in
the skin and then we need to look at the
lifestyle how we live our lives what we
do when we wake up when we go to sleep
when we eat the kind of routine that we
have that enables our bodies to be
healthy and they look at activation
essentially what we do to keep our
metabolism high to keep us healthy but
the kinds of movement the kind of
exercise we need to do and then also
it's what we're thinking and how we're
feeling is our relationship to other
people and even a divine so essentially
what all these aspects are there we can
be in the hub of the wheel and that's
where we're optimum that's where we can
feel the best we can